Distributed Systems Project Distribution Strategy
Since this is a distributed systems class evaluation, the presentation should focus cleanly on the components of distributed architecture.

Strategy: 4 Computers, 4 Distinct Roles
This is the perfect way to use and explain 4 distinct physical computers during your presentation.

Computer 1 (Member 1): The Backbone Network
Role: Administrator / Infrastructure Engineer
Runs: The Docker 
docker-compose.yml
 (Zookeeper + 2 Kafka Brokers).
Computer 2 (Member 2): The Processor
Role: Consumer Data Engineer
Runs: The vote-consumer Spring Boot app (it connects to Computer 1's IP address).
Computer 3 (Member 3): The Voting Portal (Voter 1)
Role: API Producer A
Runs: The vote-producer app (it connects to Computer 1's IP address).
Computer 4 (Member 4): The Load Tester / Scalability Expert
Role: Simulated Mass Voter
Runs: A simple copy-paste script that blasts 1,000 votes to Computer 3.
Data Structures and Algorithms (DS & Algo) Used
If your professor asks, "What Data Structures and Algorithms does this application use under the hood?", here is your cheat sheet:

1. The Core Data Structure: HashMap (in Java)
In the 
VoteConsumerApplication.java
, we use a HashMap<String, Integer>.

Why? A HashMap stores data in Key-Value pairs (e.g., "Candidate A" -> 500 votes).
Algorithm Benefit: It provides an O(1) time complexity for lookups and insertions. This means whether you have 2 candidates or 2,000 candidates, the computer can instantly find the candidate and increment their vote without having to scan through a long list. This is critical for high-load systems.
2. The Core Algorithm: The Accumulator Pattern (State Management)
The Consumer uses a continuous accumulator algorithm to process the endless stream of votes.

Listen: Continuously poll the Kafka event stream in a while(true) loop.
Synchronize: Lock the in-memory tally (synchronized (this)) so that if two votes arrive at the exact same nanosecond, they don't overwrite each other (this is called Thread Safety or Mutual Exclusion).
Accumulate: voteCounts.put(candidate, voteCounts.getOrDefault(candidate, 0) + 1);
Persist: Instantly write the new total state to results.txt for fault recovery.
Why We DO Track "Who" Voted (Voter Authentication Check)
A common question is: "How do you stop someone from voting twice?"

You proudly get to show the professor that you actually thought of this and built a blazing fast, memory-optimized authentication check right into your Data Consumer.

Here is exactly what you tell the Professor if they ask:

"We implemented a 'One Vote Per Aadhar' security check directly in the Consumer to prevent duplicate voting. When our API (Computer 3) receives a vote, it asks for the Candidate and the user's Aadhar ID. It sends this over Kafka to the Consumer (Computer 2). The Consumer uses a Java HashSet Data Structure to track the Aadhar IDs. Because a HashSet has an O(1) Time Complexity, our system can verify if an Aadhar ID is a duplicate in less than a millisecond, completely ignoring it if they try to vote twice. This allows us to guarantee perfect vote counts without slowing down our 1,000-vote Load Test!"

How to test this during the demo:
Run a test where someone votes: curl -X POST "http://<Computer_3_IP>:8080/vote?candidate=A&aadhar=1234"
Try to run the exact same command a second time.
Show the professor that Computer 2's Screen will instantly reject it, printing: "Duplicate vote rejected for Aadhar: 1234"!
Show the professor the final vote tally on Computer 2 was not incremented.
What to Send to Your 3 Teammates Before Class
The goal is to physically divide the microservices across laptops to prove it is a distributed system.

Computer 1 (You - The Administrator):

You keep the 
docker-compose.yml
 file. You run the Kafka Cluster (the backbone).
Computer 2 (Teammate 2 - The Consumer):

Zip up and send them the vote-consumer folder.
They run the Java Spring Boot consumer that processes data from your backbone.
Computer 3 (Teammate 3 - The Producer):

Zip up and send them the vote-producer folder.
They run the Java Spring Boot API that receives votes and publishes to your backbone.
Computer 4 (Teammate 4 - The Load Tester):

Send them only the 
load-test.ps1
 file.
How it works: This is the core concept of an API! A user's computer (Computer 4) does not need the source code to use an app. Just like your phone doesn't have Instagram's backend code on it, Computer 4 only needs a simple script that sends HTTP web traffic over the Wi-Fi to Computer 3's API. The script is just acting like 1,000 independent web browsers clicking "Vote".
The Demo Day Setup (On the Classroom Wi-Fi)
Because you will be on a new Wi-Fi network in the classroom, the IP addresses of your laptops will change. Do these setup steps first before the professor comes over.

Step 1: Get the new Wi-Fi IP Addresses
Have Computer 1 (You) and Computer 3 (Producer) open a terminal and type ipconfig. Write down the IPv4 Address for Computer 1 (e.g., 192.168.1.10) and Computer 3 (e.g., 192.168.1.15).

Step 2: Update the Code with the New IPs
Computer 1 (You): Open 
docker-compose.yml
 and replace localhost on lines 17 and 30 with Computer 1's new IP address. Save the file.

Computer 2 (Consumer) AND Computer 3 (Producer): Open 
src\main\resources\application.properties
 and replace localhost with Computer 1's new IP address. Save the file.

Computer 4 (Load Tester): Right-click 
load-test.ps1
 and choose "Edit" (or open in Notepad). Replace <COMPUTER_3_IP> with Computer 3's new IP address. Save the file.

Executing the Demo (When the Professor Arrives)
1. Start the Backbone
Computer 1 (Administrator), in terminal: docker compose up -d (Wait 15 seconds for Kafka to fully boot up)

2. Start the Processor
Computer 2 (Consumer), in terminal: cd vote-consumer mvn spring-boot:run

3. Start the Portal
Computer 3 (Producer), in terminal: cd vote-producer mvn spring-boot:run

4. Cast the First Single Vote
Computer 3 (Producer) opens a new terminal and runs: curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/vote?candidate=A&aadhar=1111"

Computer 2 (Consumer) points to their screen and shows: Valid vote processed for: A by Aadhar: 1111!

Computer 2 then types: curl "http://localhost:8081/results" (It will return {"A": 1})

5. Execute the Load Test
Take out Computer 4.

Computer 4 (Load Tester) explains: "This computer has zero code on it. It just acts as the public internet. I am going to fire 1,000 parallel web requests over the Wi-Fi at Computer 3's API to simulate a massive voting event. Each vote will have a unique Aadhar ID."

Computer 4 runs in PowerShell: Type 
.\load-test.ps1
 and press enter.

Look at Computer 2's screen. The terminal will be flying by at lightning speed printing all 1,000 votes as it catches them from the Kafka backbone. It will not crash.

Computer 2 types: curl "http://localhost:8081/results" (It will return exactly {"A": 1001})


Comment
Ctrl+Alt+M

